Add docker-compose installing (#4441)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/doc/book/installing/_docker-compose.adoc

////
This file is only meant to be included as a snippet in other documents.

> There is a version of this file for the general 'Installing Jenkins' page
> (index.adoc) and another for tutorials (_run-jenkins-in-docker.adoc).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Separate versions of this file are provided for the general 'Installing Jenkins' page
(index.adoc) and for tutorials (_run-jenkins-in-docker.adoc).
```

This file is for the index.adoc page used in the general 'Installing Jenkins'
page.

> If you update content on this page, please ensure the changes are reflected in
> the sibling file _docker-for-tutorials.adoc (used in
> _run-jenkins-in-docker.adoc).

Reviewer 2: Not used in multiple locations (at least not yet)
```suggestion
```

+
[source,bash]
----
mkdir jenkins
----
. Create a file called `docker-compose.yml` in the above project directory `jenkins` and paste the following:
+
[source,yaml]
----
version: "2.4"
services:
  blueocean:
    container_name: jenkins-blueocean
    build:
      context: ./blueocean
    environment:
      - DOCKER_HOST=tcp://docker:2376
      - DOCKER_CERT_PATH=/certs/client
      - DOCKER_TLS_VERIFY=1
    ports:
      - "8080:8080"
      - "50000:50000"
    volumes:
      - type: volume
        source: docker-certs
        target: /certs/client
      - type: volume
        source: data
        target: /var/jenkins_home
    networks:
      jenkins:
  dind:
    container_name: jenkins-docker
    image: docker:dind
    privileged: true
    environment:
       - DOCKER_TLS_CERTDIR=/certs
    ports:
      - "2376:2376"
    volumes:
      - type: volume
        source: docker-certs
        target: /certs/client
      - type: volume
        source: data
        target: /var/jenkins_home
    networks:
      jenkins:
        aliases:
          - docker
volumes:
  docker-certs:
    name: jenkins-docker-certs
  data:
    name: jenkins-data
networks:
  jenkins:
----

> . Customise official Jenkins Docker image, by executing below two steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Customise theofficial Jenkins Docker image, by executing the following two steps:
```

Reviewer 3: @StackScribe shouldn't this be the official not one word?

> . Customise theofficial Jenkins Docker image, by executing the following two steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Extend the official Jenkins Docker image by executing the following two steps:
```

> .. Create direcotry `blueocean`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Create directory `blueocean`
```

.. Create Dockerfile in the above directory `blueocean` with the following content:
+
[source,subs="attributes+"]
----
FROM jenkins/jenkins:{jenkins-stable}-lts-jdk11
USER root
RUN sed -i "s/http/https/g" /etc/apt/sources.list \
        && apt-get update && apt-get install -y apt-transport-https \
        ca-certificates curl gnupg2 \
        software-properties-common
RUN curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/debian/gpg | apt-key add -
RUN apt-key fingerprint 0EBFCD88
RUN add-apt-repository \
       "deb [arch=amd64] https://download.docker.com/linux/debian \
       $(lsb_release -cs) stable"
RUN apt-get update && apt-get install -y docker-ce-cli
USER jenkins

> RUN jenkins-plugin-cli --plugins "blueocean:1.24.7 docker-workflow:1.26"

Reviewer 2: Use most recent releases
```suggestion
RUN jenkins-plugin-cli --plugins "blueocean:1.25.5 docker-workflow:1.29"
```

jenkins-blueocean | 
jenkins-blueocean | Jenkins initial setup is required. An admin user has been created and a password generated.
jenkins-blueocean | Please use the following password to proceed to installation:
jenkins-blueocean | 
jenkins-blueocean | ac14963b0dc145bd9432a21fdcbe10aa
jenkins-blueocean | 
jenkins-blueocean | This may also be found at: /var/jenkins_home/secrets/initialAdminPassword
jenkins-blueocean | 
jenkins-blueocean | *************************************************************
jenkins-blueocean | *************************************************************
jenkins-blueocean | *************************************************************
jenkins-blueocean | 
----

. Proceed to the <<setup-wizard,Post-installation setup wizard>>.

[[accessing-the-jenkins-blue-ocean-docker-container]]
== Accessing the Docker container

If you have some experience with Docker and you wish or need to access your
Docker container through a terminal/command prompt using the
link:https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/exec/[`docker exec`]
command, you can add an option like `--name jenkins-tutorial` to the `docker exec` command.

> That will access the Jenkins Docker container named "jenkins-tutorial".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That accesses the Jenkins Docker container named "jenkins-tutorial".
```

This means you could access your docker container (through a separate
terminal/command prompt window) with a `docker exec` command like:

`docker exec -it jenkins-blueocean bash`

[[accessing-the-jenkins-console-log-through-docker-logs]]
== Accessing the Docker logs

There is a possibility you may need to access the Jenkins console log, for
instance, when <<unlocking-jenkins,Unlocking Jenkins>> as part of the
<<setup-wizard,Post-installation setup wizard>>.

The Jenkins console log is easily accessible through the terminal/command
prompt window from which you executed the `docker run ...` command.

> In case if needed you can also access the Jenkins console log through the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also access the Jenkins console log through the
```

link:https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/logs/[Docker logs] of
your container using the following command:

`docker logs <docker-container-name>`

Your `<docker-container-name>` can be obtained using the `docker ps` command.

== Accessing the Jenkins home directory

> There is a possibility you may need to access the Jenkins home directory, for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may need to access the Jenkins home directory, for
```

instance, to check the details of a Jenkins build in the `workspace`
subdirectory.

If you mapped the Jenkins home directory (`/var/jenkins_home`) to one on your
machine's local file system (i.e. in the `docker run ...` command
<<downloading-and-running-jenkins-in-docker,above>>), then you can access the
contents of this directory through your machine's usual terminal/command prompt.

> Otherwise, if you specified the `--volume jenkins-data:/var/jenkins_home` option in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you specified the `--volume jenkins-data:/var/jenkins_home` option in
```
